=head1 Shrub Exchange Format

The exchange format describes how to construct the input directories for the Shrub database. Each genome is
represented by a directory whose name is the genome ID. Each subsystem is represented by a directory
whose name is the subsystem name with spaces replaced by underscores. Each metagenomic sample is
represented by a directory whose name matches the sample ID.

The directory tree containing the genomes is called the I<genome repository>. In a default situation,
the genomes are stored in a two-level directory tree whose first level is the genus name and whose
second level is the species name. This prevents individual directories from being too large. A file
named C<index> at the top level maps genome IDs to a relative directory path in the tree. The file
is tab-delimited with three columns-- (0) the genome ID, (1) the genome name, and (2) the relative
path to the genome directory. If this file does not exist, you can create it with L<ShrubIndexGenomes.pl>.

The directory containing the subsystems is called the I<subsystem repository>, and it is a single, flat
directory. There is no need for an index file.

The main exchange format directory is called C<Inputs>. It has five subdirectories.

=over 4

=item GenomeData

The genome repository.

=item SubSystemData

The subsystem repository.

=item ModelSEEDDatabase

A copy of the ModelSEED data downloaded from GitHub.

=item Samples

The metagenomic samples repository. Each sample is in its own directory, underneath a directory representing the
source project.

=item Other

A storage area for miscellaneous files, including protein family tables, the NCBI taxonomy files,
and conserved domain database files.

=back

=head2 Metadata Files

Attribute information is stored in I<metadata files>. A metadata file contains key-value pairs, one
per line. The key comes first, followed by a separating colon (C<:>), then the value. Metadata files
can be read and written using methods of the L<Loader> object.

=head2 Directories

=head3 The Subsystem Directory

The exchange-format directory for a single subsystem contains four files.

=over 4

=item Info

This is a metadata file containing the following keys.

=over 8

=item version

The version number of the subsystem.

=item privileged

C<0> if the subsystem is public (can be edited by all users) or C<1> if it is privileged (can
only be edited by privileged users).

=item row-privilege

The privilege level of the annotations from which the subsystem was constructed.

=item class

A tab-delimited string of the subsystem classifications, from biggest to smallest.

=back

=item Roles

This is a tab-delimited file containing the roles of the subsystem in order. The first column (0) is
the role abbreviation, the second (1) is the role description (that is, the statement of the role),
and the third (2) is C<aux> for an auxiliary role and blank otherwise.

=item GenomesInSubsys

This is a tab-delimited file listing the genomes in which the subsystem is implemented. (In general,
not all implementations will be in here, only the ones interesting enough to be in the main
subsystem spreadsheet). The first column (0) is the genome ID, the second (1) is the genome name,
the third (2) is the variant code, and the fourth (3) is the row number.

=item PegsInSubsys

This is a tab-delimited file listing the features in the subsystem spreadsheet. The first column (0)
is the feature ID and, the second (1) is the role abbreviation, the third (2) is the role
description, and the fourth (3) is the row number.

=back

=head3 The Genome Directory

The exchange-format directory for a single genome contains five files.

=over 4

=item contigs

A FASTA file containing the contigs in the genome and their DNA sequences.

=item genome-info

A metadata file containing the following fields.

=over 8

=item md5

The MD5 digest for the genome's DNA sequence, as defined by L<MD5Computer>.

=item name

The genome name, usually the scientific name with some additional (and very
optional) comments.

=item privilege

The privilege level of the genome's annotations-- C<0> for public (unprivileged),
C<1> for projected, and C<2> for privileged.

=item domain

Domain of this genome.

=item taxid

The genome's taxonomy ID (if known).

=item code

The genetic code to use for protein translation. If omitted, this defaults to 11.

=back

=item non-peg-info

A tab-delimited file containing the information for non-protein features. The
first column (0) contains the feature ID, the second column (1) contains the feature's
location string (described as I<Sprout format> in L<Location>), and the third
column (2) contains the feature's assigned function.

=item peg-info

A tab-delimited file containing the information for protein features. The first
column (0) contains the feature ID, the second column (1) contains the feature's
location string (described as I<Sprout format> in L<Location>), and the third
column (2) contains the feature's assigned function.

=item peg-trans

A FASTA file containing the protein translations of the protein features.

=back

=head3 The Sample Directory

A metagenome sample contains an analysis of bacterial DNA found at a specific site on a human subject.
Each directory contains the following files.

=over 4

=item site.tbl

A single-line tab-delimited file. The three fields are (0) the project ID, (1) the site ID, and (2) the
site name.

=item bins.rast.json

A JSON-format file containing the bin objects. This includes the number of contigs, the DNA count, the
bin name, and the universal role connections.

=item binX.gto

A JSON-format L<GenomeTypedObject> for each bin, generated by applying RAST to the bin's contigs. It includes
the contigs themselves and all the protein functions found in the bin.

=item refs.tbl

A tab-delimited file containing the reference genomes for the bins. Each line of the file contains (0) the
SEED-style genome ID, (1) the genome name, and (2) the genome's taxonomic ID.

=item stats.tbl

A single-line tab-delimited file. The fields are (0) the number of contigs in the sample, (1) the
number of base pairs in the sample, (2) the N50 number for the contig lengths (that is, the length of the
contig that along with all shorter contigs makes up 50% of the base pairs).

=back

=cut